---
title: "Behavior Matters"
subtitle: "Behavior Matters: Exploring How Climate Researcher’s Behavior Influences the Public Over Time — A Longitudinal Experimental Study"
date: Semester 2, academic year 2023/2024
---

###### Semester 2, academic year 2023/2024
#### By Yuyao Lu

Climate researchers, positioned as key communicators for climate change, face the
challenge of promoting climate actions among the public. With billions engaging on social
media every day, this study utilizes this platform for climate researchers to shape public
perceptions and actions towards climate change. Leveraging the popularity of short form
videos, th e study aims to create a novel online intervention, illustrating climate researchers’
personal behaviors (climate friendly vs. climate unfriendly) and substantiating the impact
through empirical evidence.

Our central research question probes the extent to which climate researchers’ behavior
influences the public’s efficacy beliefs, perceptions of climate urgency, and subsequently
their pro environmental actions. Considering the role of algorithmic recommendation systems
in shaping repetitive media consumption, we are particularly interested in the effects of
repeated exposures rather than one time intervention. Taken together, we employ a
longitudinal experiment with repeated exposures to climate researchers’ behavior, in
combination with a between subjects design. This approach allows for an in depth
investigation into changes in public perceptions and behaviors over time.

Beyond empirical insights, this study seeks theoretical extensions to behavior change
theories, enhancing their applicability to the collective challenge of climate change.
Additionally, this study aims to develop a robust climate communication strategy wi th
practical implications for science communication. The ultimate goal is to contribute both
theoretically and practically, providing valuable insights for effective climate communication
strategies
